---
title: One Project With My Mom
description: Look at those side bone, you still left the rest, keep scratch them, It's invisible, until the bone became visible
date: 2021-10-10
scheduled: 2021-10-10
tags:
  - longs
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

Look at those side bone, you still left the rest, keep scratch them, It's invisible, until the bone became visible. With the eagle eyes of mom, worked in the morning kitched, sitting in the floor, still wearing my pajamas, with baskom fish with Tenggiri Fillet. I just take my instinct to get the right scratch when the Tenggiri bone getting visible, the final level for every level. While I'm still learning, with watching my mom also scratching, he's taking the fast pace. This is how we different when I'm just hand of keyboard and my mom the hands of dish.

My mom arrived on house. I standing in a garage, waiting the lid baggage from the car opened, my mom also out from the car make a command "Bring those into a washing". I grab those around 10kg of Tenggiri fishes wrapped double red thick plastic. My mom have prepare scenario for these, my mom changed into homemade chef's style, I helped get them into white baskom and arranged them, I took the eat spoon and the place to prepare for a war. I take a position with sitting on the floor and ask a request "Can I help you mom?" "Okay take those out!"

My mom have a local seller always she trusts, one of the fish merchant that most their family selling fishes, nost just buying a Tenggiri, another premium fishes I wanna craving out, oh I proud of these locals, they got a best choices.

My mom then into teaching mode, she also take a war position. "First of all, grab those meat like scooping an Ice Cream, just easy as It is, now the hard part you have to give your eyes, you have to clean it as seen as possible on the bone, It's not difficult, just double checked before decided finish". So I took my first fillet, contributed in the kitchen for the first time in my mom homemade business, beside delivery them. I scoop them like an ice cream, following the way from the head into the tail, but different ways gonna impacts the our scopped, for the middle part, It took lots meat if I start from the tail, for up and down side It's clear I gonna mess up, the skin and the little bone collaborated to protect those part, I didn's see it after finished, then my mom throws her eyes into my fillet "Look at this, still have a rest, You're not cleaning up, this part, you have to scratch hard, tried again." - I didn't pass first test, let me look at it more, what I saw, that part challenging my spoon, the meat are between lines of decorated rock skin, My mom said possible, I tried again in that end, yeah catching, if I didn't stretch first, meat still stick with them. I'm gonna say, It's tricky

One fillet finished, finally I touched the new one, tried to seducer her with my hands, so good for feeling those meats, I love a fresh one. My mom is changing into next sauce station, those are not my hand, I just belongs to smooth skin of Tenggiri with my weapon. I love this looping job, endurance me to keep consistent, compared to my usual work, writing code, just a a mental keep going, weaken my hand and too much sitting in a desk. Since then my mom got a big project, sometimes I tried to help my mom, especially dealing with raw fish. 

So It takes ten fillets to leaving the kitchen, five fish separates into ten parts, one part side with a skin and the other, Tenggiri's tip bone doesn't look strong actually, since they keep those fat protein. Actually, I'm taking the step to help my mom, since she worked alone for the Catering service in one of the wedding service. Now, My mom have assistant, also has passion, worked hard and loved customers enjoy my mom's works.

If I scratched for the skin side, well make the inner that skin looks shiny at all, the Tenggiri fillet have a color of competition with Sushi catalog, kind of shy pink and you can eat it raw also, If you have those kind of idea. I never stopped scratched, so I'm working with my hands to get physical, my eyes to be observer and my mind being the leader on it. While I'm wearing a plastic hand though, I have to changed also, those fish fillet made my hands looks disturbed if you didn't use those, even I scratched it, sometimes It gonna rob, I have to change a new plastic hand after two or three parts finished.

Finished those, I moved into a some bucket from Tupperware, I must say that Tupperware belongs to my mom around four or five years just to keep those fillets into Refrigerator, the fresh Tenggiri must be scopped immediately, If It's not just saves into a Freezer, not for emergency cases.

Different from a restaurant, My mom business depends on schedule, whose buying in the next big quantity, that's the project, comes from the Meeting Event, Weeding or just casual hang out for communities, niche market my mom looking for. This project was big, my mom have to prepared around 800 - 1000 pieces, into three categories "Pempek Kapal Selam Kecil", "Lenjer" and "Adaan". Adaan is my favorites, but I just eat it for testing session or rejected ones, others that I don't have acces, buyers that deserves it. While ongoing business, my mom also offers limited pieces, sharing into WhatsApp or Instagram, five minutes then, someone messaged "Can I get 50 pieces for Adaan?' - My mom loves more on offer between her networks than selling on delivery apps, It's selling more, onee session making, one session business began, that's how It works. Only selective customers can enjoy the lucky Pempek from my mom.

Since then we finished scooped raw Tenggiri, my mom works all day sitting in front of the Stove, her hands flip flop dough and pour eggs into 'Kapal Selam Kecil' into boiled water, to get her keep entertained, my mom playing Turkish TV series in YouTube, no subtitles, just a sound of emotions frm Turkish make a drama keep my mom entertained solitude in the kitchen. To keep quantity counts, mom do the process with routine recipes, one session for 50 pieces, also to observe the standar, make sure every supplies don't get wasted, It's gonna be chance for me. It's easier for recipe 'Lenjer', since you just make a rolling doughed into boiled, classic one. If My mom working on 'Adaan', this is a position that not always depends on sitting, since front of her a hot boiled cooking oil, I saw my mom working on this recipes, tricky and not kind of pempek recipe at all, mom created with rounded dough, It gonna expand like bubble bathing in oils, while waiting, like made a meatball dough, grip your hands in the dough, a magic gonna give a piece of Adaan, helped with the spoon, throw it into pot.

It's messy working if you have a problem with sticky meat fish. A next part is going to sauce station, no explanation for this recipe, my mom feels empty if somebody asking how to make a better "kuah", what I just know pre-steps in this making, just prepare premium palm sugar, my mom have to pre-order to this supplier, he loves go hunting, but every Cafe in my locals seeking him to get a palm sugar, lucky for my mom have been one of the loyal his customers, just in case, have to order many to attract him.

For this kind of project weeding, she make it 12 hours before the weeding began, with a big long pot, only manufactures have this kind of pot, homemade business. Now the next station for me cutting cucumber, repetitive working, not everyone enjoying the cucumber with a Pempek, a salad side for it. For the first time I cut the cucumber with her standar "Just cut into small rectangle pieces, you have to slice first and cut separates into four or three parts.". Easy work, but consistency matters again here and clean works here, 4 hours before wedding happening, between 8 and 12 cucumber I have to cut, until It's filling two or three kilogram. Just in case for Catering, to make looks green.

I have finished cucumber works, next station, helping my mom after fry the Pempek, slice three lines in end side of Pempek, make eaters cut easy with a spoon, "Kapal Selam kecil" have a shape of Shell,also slice three lines for "Lenjer" too, make sure I use plactic hand too, even It's hurting my hand got red. While I slice around 100 Pempek every 30 minutes, my mom also put into thee big bucket, this bucket is good for putting the rice, Catering services must use this for essential foods.

One hour before Weeding, I take a bath first, while my mom prepared another tool, Mini stove, four jerry can of red sauces, plates for cucumber, a bowl of sauces, supply box for tissue and emergency case, plastic plates and spoons, well from the start, I didn't mention my aunt was helping this entire project, side project with caring a cat, while we in seat position, my aunt always made a between moves, standing and sit, just in case the cats in the home, making a problem while we works, my aunt was be friend with my mom, if have to following the target pieces. My aunt specialized on branding and packaging, so for the protection of tool, my aunt polish the tools that waiting long in the garage for this project and put the brand sticker into it, so for our protection supply.

Now is the time for distribution, My mom asked the security guard in our neighborhood to help making a move to the weeding place, It's a tough job, since I and this guard have to waiting until my mom prepared ready for the weeding. I'm using my classic wear, blue jeans and blue shirt with a sandal, prepared to go, after we moved into baggage. We have arrived in the weeding place, we brought them into our place in the hall, so my mom bring a sauce can to verify our stand, since we collaborate with Catering service, my mom have to sync with the leader's project there. Well he supportive, he showed our stand, so we made a move imeddiately bring a supply, place behind curtain in the stand, now Zuhur Adzan echoes the humans, now my mom first to standy in the stand, guard the supply. I head into Wudhu and do Salat together in upper floor for Mosque

30 Minutes later, My mom and me and exchange place with my guard, exchange a place, It's my turn to guard the stand, observing the views people behinds the weeding prepared the decorators, manage with the time of event organizer, Catering boss coordinattes his fellows, once again I feel invisible here, since I just waiting with my guard, feels embarassed wrapped with my empty face, I wanna try to look calm, if I'm little bit nervous I just picked my phone, pretending to busy with my phone, nothing on notification at all. I'm watching between young mans make a fun each other and double check their menus "Ini tempat kuah Sate-nya, koq kompor-nya belum disiapin." "Pak, saya jaga di tempat mana, Sate atau Nasi? - Kamu di Nasi, si A udah jaga Sate.. Lupa ya." Listening to their preparation, make me struggle, since we just do nothing to make a progressin our stand. Never mind, It's up to my boss alias my mom. 15 minutes before weeding begin, the couple don't make a present at all, but early guest arrive in my stand "Belum siap ya?" "Belum bu, orang nya belum datang, saya jaga dulu, nanti datang lagi ya bu". Smile disappointment from her face, finally 15 minutes later after expected schedule Weeding begin, looks delayed.

Finally arrived, we have to getting a position before hosts begin this event, I opened the tray supply box, full of plastics, wrapped my hand and begin grab Pempek moved to the main plate, while My mom set the gas into mini stove, and arrange the plastic plate into stand, then begin spoiling sauce into the bowl, I follow the protocol here. Pempek have filled, I put into the stand, then I grab cucumber plastic and throws it into the small place side with a small spoon, again pretending to be calm, we just flip, move, grab behind the stand in the floor.

People don't look at us, we just do a service with a client, now we're in ready position. Just in time and late 30 minutes, hosts open with a greeting, wiseful words for new family born, my eyes charm with the prince and princess, still my hands ready to serve a Pempek and make a smile for guests taking our Pempek. The good news, host also supporting us, promote our stand, "there's a little snack Pempek, in the right, enjoy the weeding."

The guests are arriving, little by little, picking up the line, take the plate, with my hand wrapped with a plastic, to fill pieces if It begins look empty, so there's two main plates here to impreess our guests, second one with a stove to heat only 'Adaan', the other one is for 'Kapal Selam Kecil' and 'Lenjer' arrive in my stand "Belum siap ya?" "Belum bu, orang nya belum datang, saya jaga dulu, nanti datang lagi ya bu". Smile disappointment from her face, finally 15 minutes later after expected schedule Weeding begin, looks delayed.

Finally arrived, we have to getting a position before hosts begin this event, I opened the tray supply box, full of plastics, wrapped my hand and begin grab Pempek moved to the main plate, while My mom set the gas into mini stove, and arrange the plastic plate into stand, then begin spoiling sauce into the bowl, I follow the protocol here. Pempek have filled, I put into the stand, then I grab cucumber plastic and throws it into the small place side with a small spoon, again pretending to be calm, we just flip, move, grab behind the stand in the floor.

People don't look at us, we just do a service with a client, now we're in ready position. Just in time and late 30 minutes, hosts open with a greeting, wiseful words for new family born, my eyes charm with the prince and princess, still my hands ready to serve a Pempek and make a smile for guests taking our Pempek. The good news, host also supporting us, promote our stand, "there's a little snack Pempek, in the right, enjoy the weeding."

The guests are arriving, little by little, picking up the line, take the plate, with my hand wrapped with a plastic, to fill pieces if It begins look empty, so there's two main plates here to impreess our guests, second one with a stove to heat only 'Adaan', the other one is for 'Kapal Selam Kecil' and 'Lenjer'. Dificult part to make this like a quality hotel in 'Adaan' part, since we bring the Adaan with cold ones and we also make sure customers don't take it yet before ready, It's my worry, sometimes I made a mistake let the guest take it, but my mom ignored it "its okay", guests don't buy it, just lucky ones deserve better.

Not realized, It's been two hours standing then my mom offer me to get some foods in another stand, before Azan Ashar alerts us, in case I just watching the Mie Tiau stands, looks busy there, just simply craving for my middle lunch, turns out my time. I'm taking it with half boiled eggs and salad. It's good in the end, but my hunger wanna more, Bakso. Nasi Lengkap is not my principle when attending the weeding, even participate in this weeding project. Now I relaxed my body into loose,supplies almost left out, It's good news between me and my mom.

Finally, Ashar time. Music turned down, moments are flying. Well I have to following the other man to take a obligation as Muslim, my mom guards alone, I walk out. 

Finished made a wishing for the entire world, back to serve the guests. I left 30 minutes and almost sold out, we're exciting to closing this stand, so we packed the tool that we don't use again, this is how professional catering pretended to be cool. We keep standing and smile and fills the rlast round plate and after Ashar, guests even crowded, I just exciting seeing this rush, even mostly I just saw strangers, old couples and bachelors, beautiful woman with a good dress I attracted with.

This is how good food offers with free, people just take what they wants in their plates. But we don't care, since we paid, we just showing our quality and leaving them with our history tastes. Thirty minutes before the weeding scheduled end, finally our time have come, we packed the main plates, left out plastic small plates, final check make sure we didn't left something here. I moved our tools into the staff door and the day began dark with mixed rain, while my mom have to say goodbye with related clients whose paid our services.

I'm on my way out and my father is waiting and moved into a baggage, clear and waiting for my mom in the car, I just relaxed in a car how happy I am finally the end, since I have many stories to tell watching people behaviour in weeding, I dont care about the bride, but loved how weeding happening well, my mom get into the car said "Finally, end". Into head home, my mom tell stories thatI also attached with it and verify to me, when mom got happy with that, I also happy.

Arrived home, moved the tools into the kitchen immediately, just places randomly, so tomorrow we clean them up and I rush into the bathroom, take a shower, Maghrib also arrived and pray. in my room, It's my first time I dont care my computer entire day, got some dinner and watching korean variety show, pretending that past in a weeding with good ending, I laughed with Koreans make a fun themselves, It feels good. I just sit and enjoy watching.

